<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0 plus SVG 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/2002/04/xhtml-math-svg/xhtml-math-svg-flat.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" dir="ltr">
<head>
  <title>Puzzle 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h1>Puzzle 3 part 1</h1>

<div class="normal">
    A farmer has a fox, a goose and a bag of corn (or beans in some versions) and needs to cross a river;
    <ol>
        <li>The farmer can only take one item across the river at a time.</li>
        <li>The fox and the goose must not be left together unattended.</li>
        <li>The goose and the corn must not be left together unattended.</li>
    </ol>
    how does the farmer cross the river?
</div>

<h2>Draw a (Different) Map</h2>

<div class="normal">
    We appear to have four items (the farmer, the fox, the goose and the corn)
    each of which can be in two states (on the near side of the river or on the far side of the river).
    So we could use binary notation, starting at
    <span class="base4">0000</span>
    and finishing at
    <span class="base4">1111</span>.
    But do we really need to model the farmer?
    We are only really interested in the <i>transitions</i> between the states of the fox, the goose and the corn.
    So this puzzle is similar to the
    <a href="ch02.xhtml"> light-switch puzzle</a>.
    So let's rewrite the rules as a light-switch puzzle, where the switches are labelled
    &ldquo;fox&rdquo;,
    &ldquo;goose&rdquo; and
    &ldquo;corn&rdquo;.
    <ol>
        <li>You can only flick one switch at a time (either on or off)</li>
        <li>You can&rsquo;t switch the fox on leaving goose and corn off.</li>
        <li>You can&rsquo;t switch the corn on leaving goose and fox off.</li>
        <li>If the fox and goose are on, you can&rsquo;t also turn the corn on.</li>
        <li>If the corn and goose are on, you can&rsquo;t also turn the fox on.</li>
    </ol>
    The first 3 rules obviously obey the rules of the fox-goose-corn puzzle.
    You can only take one item at a time and you can&rsquo;t leave the goose and corn or fox and goose together on the near
    side of the river as you take the other item across.
    But what about rules 4 and 5?
    Well, if the fox and goose are already across the river (they are 
    &ldquo;on&rdquo;),
    the only way that the farmer can bring the corn across
    (to switch it &ldquo;on&rdquo;)
    is to be on the near side of the river to bring it across which would leave the fox and goose unattended on the far side.
    So rule 4, <em>does</em> obey the rules of the fox-goose-corn puzzle.
    And, similarly, so does rule 5.
</div>

<div class="normal">
    So we have re-written the fox-goose-corn puzzle as a light-switch puzzle.
    And since we previously rewrote <em>that</em> puzzle as the ant-on-the-box
    puzzle, then we can rewrite this puzzle in the same way too.
</div>

</body>
</html>
